Feb 2000 added cwidth, offset, coffset, lpos for vectors by Radim Blazek 

Jan 2000 added vector areas and legend label for vectors by Radim Blazek 

1998
Patch, which enables user to choose one vector category 
to print from a vector file (Janne Soimasuo, Finnland)
   -> line_cat additions

files: do_vector.c, ps_vector.c
--------------------------
** added #include <stdlib.h> 7/98 Richard Nairn

--------------------------
PROBLEM DESCRIPTION:
    Did not plot grid and vecors correctly in lat-lon
    label location also didn't work in lat-lon
STATUS:
    FIXED and coming out with the next update

PROBLEM DESCRIPTION:
The manual for ps.map says that fields width and hwidth
specify the width of the line in pixels, which is not true:
they were actually interpreted as width in user space PostScript
coordinates: 1/72 of inch. I made the width double, added width options
for outline and grid, and also now the width ni is isnterpreted as n inches.
 
STATUS:
    FIXED and coming out with the next update

PROBLEM DESCRIPTION:
Also in file outl_io.c o_write_line()  is an exact copy of the
write_ln() function in r.poly, which I fixed (GRASS930547) since
it was giving segmentation faults.

It looks like ps.map is doing exactly what r.poly does: creating
a vector file with boundaries of raster areas given a raster file.
Seems like a lot to do just to plot a map. If the user makes 10
different plots with the same raster file using outline, then 
every time exact same vector file is created and deleted.

Instead I want to draw little line segments between every pair of
differing cells without worrying too much about topology.
This will have one drawback: each vector line will be drawn as many
little line segments, each with beginning and the end, instead of
starting the PostScript path at each node and drawing a continuous line 
through all the points of vector line like it is done when drawing vector
maps.
Also I am going to add a line width parameter to outline command

STATUS:
    FIXED and coming out with the next update

From anne@cast.uark.edu Mon Dec 20 16:40:49 1993

FIXED BUGS:

  1. removed the G_strip(buf); instructions in function comment.c
     to allow leading and trailing spaces in comment file.

  2. removed statements:
     if (fontsize < 10) fontsize = 10;
     if (fontsize > 50) fontsize = 50;
     in function do_labels.c so as not to restrict the choice of font size.

  3. increased the maximum number of pixels allowed on a page in function
      map_setup.c : 
          limit = 300000000L; 
     if the total number of pixels is larger than "limit" then ps.map 
     reduces it to limit
     This change allows us to print layers at their actual resolution.
     For example: an AVHRR layer at 151 cells per inch. 

     NOTE: we are thinking about assigning different upper limits to different 
     Postscript devices, as an additional parameter in the ps.devices files.

  4. changed function plfile.c so that it accepts a line width of 0
     NOTE: it should also be changed to allow decimal point values.

(I already changed it to decimal number, and made it accept 0 .Olga)

  5. changed function ps_clrtbl.c so that category 0's label is read from the
     cats file rather than replaced by "no data"

PROBLEM DESCRIPTION:
background none in labels did not work, the box was black
The gridnumber size was set to zero if it was >50;
Also I want to add linewidth for grid
STATUS:
    FIXED and coming out with the next update
     

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
DESCRIPTION:

ps.map is called with the following arguments:

    ps.map input=input_script [scale=xxxx] output=outputfile

The scale is optional.  If no scale is given here and no scale request is 
made in the input script, a scale equivalent to "1 panel" is used. 

The program ps.select should be run to select a printer configuration file
prior to running ps.map.  These files are located in the directory 
$GISBASE/etc/paint/ps.devices.  The name of the file is the argument to
ps.select.  These files contain the following printer info:

	level: 2
	page width: 8.5
	page height: 11.0
	top margin: 0.5
	bottom margin: 0.5
	left margin: 0.25
	right margin: 0.25
	resolution: 75

If ps.select is not run, the default values are as shown above, where page
width and height are the paper dimensions (in inches) and the margins are
the unprintable edges of the page.  The level is the PostScript level and
the resolution is the effective resolution in pixels per inch.  

All of the p.map requests except for "colormode", "defpat" and "setpat"
have been implemented.  Multiple panels are not supported at this time.
The icons used in the point and sites requests are created with the ps.icon
program (icons created with p.icon will not work).

The following p.map requests have been modified in ps.map:

    colortable (has the following additional sub-requests)   
      where x y (distance in inches from left and top edges of page - optional)
      width  tablewidth (maximum width of colortable in inches - optional)
      cols table_columns (optional - defaullt = 1)
      font fontname (optional - default = Helvetica)
      fontsize fontsize (optional - default = 10)
      color textcolor (optional - default = black)
      end (required)

    comments (has the following additional sub-requests)   
      where x y (positions the comments x and y inches from the left and top 
	edges of the page - optonal - default is immediately below the last
	item printed, starting at the left edge of the map)
      font fontname (optional - default = Helvetica)
      fontsize fontsize (optional - default = 10)
      color textcolor (optional - default = black)
      end (required)

    grid (has the following additional sub-requests)   
      font fontname (optional - default = Helvetica)
      fontsize fontsize (optional - default = 10)
      end (required)

    labels (has the following additional sub-requests)   
      font fontname (optional - default = Helvetica)
      end (required)

    scale (except multiple panels are not yet implemented)

    sites (has the following additional sub-request)   
      font fontname (optional - default = Helvetica.  The size of the
	font is proportional to the size of the icon.  The default icon
	size is 1.0, which is equivalent to a fontsize of 10.)

    vector (except the stye sub-request uses the first color for
	    all non-zero characters in the line pattern)


The following new script requests have been added:

    greyrast (prints a raster map in shades of grey).

    header
      file filename (name of file containing header info - optional -
		     default is the standard header of pmap, except that it is
		     centered on the page)
      font fontname (optional - default = Helvetica)
      fontsize fontsize (optional - default = 10)
      color textcolor (optional - default = black)
      end (required)

    maploc x y [width height]  (positions the map x and y inches from
	the left and top edges of the page.  If the optional width and
	height arguments are present, the map will be rescaled to fit.
	If this request is not encountered, the map will be located
	immediately below the header starting at the left margin.)

    mapinfo
      where x y (positions the information about the scale, the grid, and
	the region x and y inches from the left and top edges of the page -
	optonal - default is immediately below the map, starting at the
	left edge of the map)
      font fontname (optional - default = Helvetica)
      fontsize fontsize (optional - default = 10)
      color textcolor (optional - default = black)
      end (required)

    psfile filename (reads a file containing PostScript commands.  This
	request can appear up to 20 times in a ps.map script.)

    vlegend
      where x y (positions the vector legend x and y inches from the left 
	and top edges of the page - optonal - default is immediately below the
	map_info, starting at the left edge of the map)
      font fontname (optional - default = Helvetica)
      fontsize fontsize (optional - default = 10)
      end (required)

    group <group> (prints an imagery group comprising R,G,B channels.)

    rgb <red[@mapset]> <green[@mapset]> <blue[@mapset]> (prints an RGB
      image formed from three separate layers, as for d.rgb.)
